managed: make it harder to make mistakes in upgrade process (#1885)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/distribution/managed/upgrade_process.md

# Upgrading a managed instance

> - [Walkthrough video](#walkthrough-video)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managed instances configuration is tracked in [`deploy-sourcegraph-managed-instances`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed). For basic operations like accessing an instance for these steps, see [managed instances operations](operations.md).

- [Walkthrough video](#walkthrough-video)
```

I think it is worth keeping a brief description of the document and that you might want to look elsewhere for other things in almost all documents we have.

**Note:** You do not need to watch the above videos to perform this process, these are for educational purposes only. The steps below may be more up-to-date and accurate than the videos above.

## 0) Setup

Managed instances configuration is tracked in [`deploy-sourcegraph-managed`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed) - make sure you have the latest revision of this repository checked out. For basic operations like accessing an instance for these steps, see [managed instances operations](operations.md).

> Many of the following commands in this guide, as well as the commands [operations](./operations.md), use variables. You can replace variables with the correct values by hand, or export the appropriate values for the upgrade:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many of the following commands in this guide, as well as the commands [operations](./operations.md), use environment variables. Export the appropriate values for the upgrade so you don't lose track:
```

```sh
export CUSTOMER=<customer_or_instance_name>
export VERSION=v<sourcegraph_version>
```

Start a branch for your upgrade in [`deploy-sourcegraph-managed`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed):

```sh
git checkout -b $CUSTOMER/upgrade-to-$VERSION
```

Figure out [what instance is currently live](./operations.md#redblack-deployment-model) for the managed instance you are upgrading - it should be either `red` or `black`:

```sh
gcloud compute instances list --project=sourcegraph-managed-$CUSTOMER
```

> Set up the following values (or replace them as you go):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Export the following values in your shell:
```

```sh
export OLD_DEPLOYMENT=red # the current deployment
export NEW_DEPLOYMENT=$([ "$OLD_DEPLOYMENT" = "red" ] && echo "black" || echo "red")
```

> You can replace the `DEPLOYMENT` variable used in [operations](./operations.md), following the steps in this guide to determine which value `DEPLOYMENT` should be, like so:

Reviewer: I don't understand what this line is talking about

Author: ```suggestion
You can replace the `DEPLOYMENT` variable used in the examples in [operations](./operations.md) (using this guide to determine the appropriate value) like so:
```

```sh
export DEPLOYMENT=$OLD_DEPLOYMENT

> # ... commands

Reviewer: What commands would I put here? not super clear to me

Author: ```suggestion
# ... commands that target specific instances like `default-$DEPLOYMENT-instance`
```

## 3) Create a snapshot of the current deployment

Edit `$CUSTOMER/terraform.tfvars` to create a snapshot of the current deployment, for example:

```diff
 load_balancer_target = "red"
 deployments = ["red"]
 disks = {
     red = { from_snapshot = null }
 }
 snapshots = {
+    upgrade-from-3-17-2 = { from_disk = "default-red-data-disk" }
 }
```

Make sure the version (`3-17-2`) describes the current version of the instance, and `from_disk` is correct, then `terraform apply` it to create the snapshot. This can take anywhere from a minute to several minutes, depending on how large the disk is.

## 4) Initialize the new production deployment

> Copy the previous deployment's Docker Compose configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the old deployment's Docker Compose configuration:
```

```sh
cd $CUSTOMER
cp -R $OLD_DEPLOYMENT/ $NEW_DEPLOYMENT/
git add $NEW_DEPLOYMENT/
git commit -m "$CUSTOMER: cp -R $OLD_DEPLOYMENT/ $NEW_DEPLOYMENT/"
```

> Initialize the `NEW_DEPLOYMENT` production deployment using the snapshot created in the previous step, by editing `$CUSTOMER/terraform.tfvars` with something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialize the new production deployment (`NEW_DEPLOYMENT`) using the snapshot created in the previous step, by editing `$CUSTOMER/terraform.tfvars` with something like:
```

## 8) Confirm instance health

> [Access Grafana](operations.md#port-forwarding-direct-access-to-caddy-jaeger-and-grafana) and confirm the instance is healthy by verifying no critical alerts are firing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Access Grafana](operations.md#port-forwarding-direct-access-to-caddy-jaeger-and-grafana) and confirm the instance is healthy by verifying no critical alerts are firing, and there has been no large increase in warning alerts.
```

Also remove the deploy config for that deployment as it is no longer used:

```sh
cd $CUSTOMER
rm -rf $OLD_DEPLOYMENT/
git add .
git commit -m "$CUSTOMER: remove $OLD_DEPLOYMENT deployment"
```

## 12) Open a pull request to commit your changes

```sh
git push origin HEAD
```

> And click the provided link to open a pull request in [`deploy-sourcegraph-managed`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And click the provided link to open a pull request in [`deploy-sourcegraph-managed`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed).

**IMPORTANT: DO NOT FORGET TO HAVE YOUR PR APPROVED AND MERGED**, if you do the next person upgrading the instance will have a very bad time.
```
